SQL Interview Questions:-

1) What is the difference between COALESCE() & ISNULL()? 

COALESCE(): COALESCE function in SQL returns the first non-NULL expression among its arguments. If all the expressions evaluate to null, 
then the COALESCE function will return null.
Syntax:

SELECT column(s), CAOLESCE(expression_1,....,expression_n)
FROM table_name;
ISNULL(): The ISNULL function has different uses in SQL Server and MySQL. In SQL Server, ISNULL() function is used to replace NULL values.
Syntax:

SELECT column(s), ISNULL(column_name, value_to_replace)
FROM table_name;
For more details, please read the SQL | Null functions article.

70. Name the operator which is used in the query for appending two strings?

In SQL for appending two strings,  ” Concentration operator”  is used and its symbol is ” || “. 




2)The difference between NVL and NVL2 functions?

These functions work with any data type and pertain to the use of null values in the expression list. 
These are all single-row functions i.e. provide one result per row.

NVL(expr1, expr2): In SQL, NVL() converts a null value to an actual value. Data types that can be used are date, character, and number.
Data types must match with each other. i.e. expr1 and expr2 must be of the same data type.
 

Syntax:

NVL (expr1, expr2)
NVL2(expr1, expr2, expr3):  The NVL2 function examines the first expression. If the first expression is not null,
then the NVL2 function returns the second expression. If the first expression is null, then the third expression is returned i.e. 
If expr1 is not null, NVL2 returns expr2. If expr1 is null, NVL2 returns expr3. The argument expr1 can have any data type.

Syntax:

NVL2 (expr1, expr2, expr3)

3) How to copy tables in SQL?

Sometimes, in SQL, we need to create an exact copy of an already defined (or created) table. 
MySQL enables you to perform this operation. 
Because we may need such duplicate tables for testing the data without having any impact on the original table and the data stored in it. 

CREATE TABLE Contact List(Clone_1) LIKE Original_table;


4) What is ETL in SQL?

ETL is a process in Data Warehousing and it stands for Extract, Transform and Load.
It is a process in which an ETL tool extracts the data from various data source systems, transforms it in the staging area, and then finally, 
loads it into the Data Warehouse system. 
These are three database functions that are incorporated into one tool to pull data out from one database and to put data into another database.



5)What are aggregate and scalar functions?

For doing operations on data SQL has many built-in functions, they are categorized into two categories and further sub-categorized into seven different functions under each category. The categories are:

Aggregate functions:
These functions are used to do operations from the values of the column and a single value is returned.

Scalar functions:
These functions are based on user input, these too return a single value.
